pmbp
~~~~

The pmbp.pl script is a tool to manage runtime environments for Perl
applications, built on the top of infrastructures such as perlbrew and
cpanm.

* Usage

See |perldoc pmbp.pl|.

* Design goals or requirements

** Features

Perl.  It must be possible to install Perl for the application.  It
must be possible to specify the particular stable version of Perl
greater than 5.8.  It must also be possible to setup the latest stable
version of Perl without explicitly specifying the version of Perl.

CPAN Perl modules.  It must be possible to install Perl module
packages available from CPAN for the application.  It must be able to
specify one or more modules by package names of them as registered in
the module list provided by CPAN.

Other Perl modules.  It must be possible to install Perl module
packages provided as tarballs available on the Web.

Non-Perl modules.  It should be able to suggest the list of known
non-Perl software packages required for the modules directly or
indirectly depended by the application.  It may also support
installation of such software packages.

Dependeny inspection.  It must be possible to extract list of required
Perl modules for the application and use it to install modules.  It
must support extraction of dependency from the application's main
repository, as well as Git submodules, CPAN modules, and modules
provided as tarballs.

Perl module "bundling".  It must be possible to construct the
collection of tarballs that can be used to install Perl modules
required by the application.  It must also be possible to update the
collection incrementally, i.e. it must be possible to add new modules
without re-scanning dependency or re-downloading tarballs for existing
modules.

Self updating.  It must be possible to upgrade the tool itself in some
automated manner.

** Requirements

Platforms.  It should support various development environments on
Unix-like platforms.  In particular, it should support CentOS, Debian
GNU/Linux, Mac OS X, and Cygwin with common development tools
installed (which include, but not limited to, bash, sed, make, gcc,
tar, wget, and git).  It may also depend on existence of Perl (5.8 or
later), but it must not depend on any particular version of Perl.  It
must not depend on existence of non-standard tools (including, but not
limited to, perlbrew, cpanm, or carton).  Note that it may use
non-standard tools by installing them by itself, if necessary.

Automation.  Installation and other processes must be done in
automated ways.  It must not require user input in the middle of
processing (at least by default).

Locality.  It must not add, modify, or delete any file outside of the
directory of the application, or the directories specified by the
application (without prior permission from the user).  It should not
request the permission for files not accessible by the owner of the
application (or the "current" user).

Multiple Perl versions.  It must be possible to install mutliple
versions of Perl for the application.  They can be switched at anytime
without reinstalling modules.

Support for declarative lists of required modules.  It must be
possible to obtain the list of required Perl modules encoded in some
declarative format.  That is, it must support a format describing the
dependency of applications or modules without use of any
Turing-complete scripting langauge.

Support for lists of required modules by other tools.  It must also
support dependency description format of other tools, including:
carton.lock, cpanfile, Makefile.PL, Build.PL, and pmb-style
modules.txt.

Fast pure-Perl module installation.  It should be possible to skip
configuration process of installation of pure-Perl modules.

Error recovery in install processes.  It should be possible to recover
from common install errors by, for example, automatically augumenting
missing dependency detected from error messages.  It may hardcode
workaround for specific modules, if necessary.

Upgrading.  It must be easy to install newer version of Perl or Perl
modules to environment where older version of Perl or Perl module is
already installed.

Simplified command-line interface.  It should also provide an
easy-to-use command-line interface covering most common use cases.

Integration with Makefile.setupenv.  It must be able to be invoked
from the Makefile.setupenv framework.  It should be easy to migrate
from the pmb tool.

* Author

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

* License

Copyright 2012 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
